GridSpacing: Per-Component UnitSI & UnitDimension (#193)
ComputationalRadiationPhysics/openPMD-standard: STANDARD.md

      present standard (e.g. fields on an unstructured mesh),
      this can be done be storing this data within a path that *is not*
      of the form given by `basePath` (e.g. `/extra_data`). In this

>       way, the openPMD parsing tools will not parse this additional data.

Reviewer: while we are on it: it's not only the *openPMD parsing tools* but general *openPMD data readers*

    - example: `(0.0, 100.0, 0.0)` or `(0.5, 0.5, 0.5)`

  - `gridUnitSI`
    - type: 1-dimensional array containing N *(float64 / REAL8)*

>             elements, where N is the number of dimensions in the simulation

Reviewer: This is related to #125 & #129 (PR in #194): if we flatten the array we have to specify *how*.
I would propose to use the wording from #129 as such:
`, dimensions shall be ordered from fastest to slowest varying index [of the described mesh].`

Reviewer: update: we probably will go from `slowest to fastest` in #194

    - description: unit-conversion factor to multiply each value in
                   `gridSpacing` and `gridGlobalOffset`, in order to convert
                   from simulation units to SI units
    - example: `(1.0e-9, 1.0e-9, 1.0e-6)`

  - `gridUnitDimension`

>     - type: array of 7 N *(float64 / REAL8)*

Reviewer: I would write `N arrays of 7 *(float64 / REAL8)*`

Author: Ok, that's one possibility.
However, the thing is that it is stored as a single 1D array.

Reviewer 2: BTW, I see a few REAL8 mentioned, but this word isn't actually standard (Neither is real(8)) in Fortran. Fortran 2008 provides standard kinds: REAL32, REAL64, REAL128
http://fortranwiki.org/fortran/show/Real+precision

Reviewer: Huh, very good point. This is also something for #187 (please cross-post therein again)

Reviewer: >  However, the thing is that it is stored as a single 1D array.

Ah I see, ok with me.

Reviewer 3: My thought would be to not even mandate any precision (ie just say "real"). For example, why should the standard disallow the use of real4?

Reviewer: The unit dimension attribute is not a record but just describing the dimensionality ("unit"). It introduces no problem keeping it fixed and makes parsing very simple.

Reviewer: @RemiLehe pls replace `array` with `1-dimensional array` for consistency.
```suggestion
    - type: 1-dimensional array of 7 N *(float64 / REAL8)*
```

>             elements, where N is the number of dimensions in the simulation

Reviewer: we need to add the same comment with order as above for flattening

    - description: powers of the 7 base measures characterizing the
            grid axes's dimensions (length L, mass M, time T,
            electric current I, thermodynamic temperature theta,
            amount of substance N, luminous intensity J)
    - note: this is similar to `unitDimension`, but applies to each axis
        The 7 numbers characterizing the dimension of an axis are stored
        contiguously in this 1D array.
    - examples:
        - For a 2D spatial grid (`L=1`), store array
        `(1., 0., 0., 0., 0., 0., 0., 1., 0., 0., 0., 0., 0., 0.)`

>         - For a 2D phase space (Unit "m" along the first axis

Reviewer: Maybe we better stay with `L` and `M * L / T` as defined in `unitDimension`?

    - example: `(0.0, 100.0, 0.0)` or `(0.5, 0.5, 0.5)`

  - `gridUnitSI`
    - type: 1-dimensional array containing N *(float64 / REAL8)*

>             elements, where N is the number of dimensions in the simulation. Dimensions shall be ordered from fastest to slowest varying index of the described mesh.

Reviewer: slowest to fastest

    - description: unit-conversion factor to multiply each value in
                   `gridSpacing` and `gridGlobalOffset`, in order to convert
                   from simulation units to SI units
    - example: `(1.0e-9, 1.0e-9, 1.0e-6)`

  - `gridUnitDimension`
    - type: array of 7 N *(float64 / REAL8)*

>             elements, where N is the number of dimensions in the simulation. Dimensions shall be ordered from fastest to slowest varying index of the described mesh.

Reviewer: slowest to fastest

  - `gridUnitSI`
    - type: 1-dimensional array containing N *(float64 / REAL8)*

>             elements, where N is the number of dimensions in the simulation. Dimensions shall be ordered from fastest to slowest varying index of the described mesh.

Reviewer: will be inverted

on Unit Systems and Dimensionality, further below):

  - `gridUnitSI`
    - type: 1-dimensional array containing N *(float64 / REAL8)*

>             elements, where N is the number of dimensions in the simulation. Dimensions shall be ordered from slowest to fastest varying index of the described mesh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            elements, where N is the number of dimensions in the simulation.
            The order of the N values must be identical to the axes in `axisLabels`.
```

    - description: unit-conversion factor to multiply each value in
                   `gridSpacing` and `gridGlobalOffset`, in order to convert
                   from simulation units to SI units
    - example: `(1.0e-9, 1.0e-9, 1.0e-6)`

  - `gridUnitDimension`
    - type: array of 7 N *(float64 / REAL8)*

>             elements, where N is the number of dimensions in the simulation. Dimensions shall be ordered from slowest to fastest varying index of the described mesh.

Reviewer: Overlong line. Maybe put "Dimensions shall be..." on the next line (indented to same block).

Reviewer: I would try to make this more clear how the arrays are stored by writing:

"The order of the N 7-value arrays must be identical to the axes in `axisLabels`."

This makes it consistent with the other attributes above that have the same order and uses the same wording, also consistently with #194.
```suggestion
            elements, where N is the number of dimensions in the simulation.
            The order of the N 7-value arrays must be identical to the axes in `axisLabels`.
```

on Unit Systems and Dimensionality, further below):

  - `gridUnitSI`

>     - type: 1-dimensional array containing N *(float64 / REAL8)*

Reviewer 4: Note: This does not extend, but instead changes the definition of `gridUnitSI`. According to this wording, writing a single scalar to be used for all axes will no longer be supported for 2.0, meaning that all writers need to change this.
Do we additionally want to allow scalars here in 2.0, or should writers migrate?

Currently implementing this by printing a warning for legacy-defined scalar values for `gridUnitSI` in https://github.com/openPMD/openPMD-api/pull/1534/:
```cpp
Mesh &Mesh::setGridUnitSI(double gusi)
{
    setAttribute("gridUnitSI", gusi);
    if (auto standard = IOHandler()->m_standard;
        standard >= OpenpmdStandard::v_2_0_0)
    {
        std::cerr << "[Mesh::setGridUnitSI] Warning: Setting a scalar "
                     "`gridUnitSI` in a file with openPMD version '" +
                std::string(auxiliary::formatStandard(standard)) +
                "'. Consider specifying a vector instead in order to "
                "specify the gridUnitSI per axis (ref.: "
                "https://github.com/openPMD/openPMD-standard/pull/193).\n";
    }
    return *this;
}
```
